TEXT: Altitude | Project Gutenberg
The Project Gutenberg eBook of
Altitude
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at
www.gutenberg.org
. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.
Title
: Altitude
Author
: Leland Jamieson
Illustrator
: William Molt
Release date
: May 24, 2025 [eBook #76156]
Language
: English
Original publication
: Chicago, IL: The Consolidated Magazines Corporation, 1929
Credits
: Roger Frank and Sue Clark
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ALTITUDE ***
Conway paused. A helluva lot you know about altitude records, fella! Want to fly this one, for a change?
ALTITUDE
By Leland S. Jamieson
Illustrated by William Molt
A free-balloon expert soars high indeeda vivid and authentic story by an
officer of the army air service.
The silver sphere that was the
Marie IV
, the balloon of all
balloons to Captain Conway, tugged lightly at the sandbags that held her
to the floor. A faint chill breeze whipped around the corner of the open
hangar and swayed her gently; the grace of the oscillations suggested an
eagerness to tear away from the moorings that lay in a neat square below
her basket. Big beyond comparison with other free balloons, she was an
object of affection from airmen. She was not just a free balloon, a
fabrication of cloth and rope and wicker, filled with hydrogen; she was
the
Marie IV
; her name was painted in tall blue letters on her
side beneath the netting, and men spoke of her by name. To those
familiar with her exploits she had a definite personality, as inanimate
things may often have.
In the semi-gloom inside the hangar two men were working. Conway, the
larger of these men, was standing in the wicker car of the balloon.
Kisner, his aide on many past occasions, knelt upon the floor and sorted
paraphernalia, pausing, now and then, to stand and pass some object up
to Conway. It was cold; the mercury of the thermometer in the basket
huddled in the tube at ten degrees above zero; both men wore heavy
fur-lined flying clothes, though only Conway was going on the flight.
Their hands were mittened and were huge, like paws; their feet were
incased in awkward fleece-lined moccasins.
Kisner lifted a small steel cylinder, upon which was attached a
parachute pack, and handed it to Conway; the larger man stepped to the
opposite side of the wicker cage and tussled clumsily with the straps
and lines that were meant to hold the cylinder in place against a
framework on the outside of the car. His hands were all thumbs, and he
had difficulty. Finally, in exasperation he turned to Kisner.
Here, fella, give me a hand. Ive got too many mittens.
Take em off, Kisner suggested gravely, stepping around the
basket. You cant tie knots in a piece of rope with two thumbs.
Aiding one another, the two accomplished the task, and Kisner turned
back to sorting the various lines and gear on the floor.
An automobile drew to a stop just within the doorway of the hangar, and
another man, also dressed in flying clothesthe best protection
from the coldclimbed out. Opening the rear door of the car he
removed three small, black rectangular boxes. Handling them with
infinite care, he walked toward the
Marie IV
. Conway saw him
coming and turned to Kisner.
Here comes Welkfurn with our instruments. Were just about all set
now.
The man named Welkfurn called, as he approached the balloon: You guys
must a been working all night, to be out here this time of day.
How you making out?
Fine, Conway replied. Set those barographs down and give us a
hand here. Whatd the jeweler say? I guess he got the oil off all
right.
Should have, said Welkfurn. Told me he worked all night on
em. Got a fine day for a trip like this, eh? Awful cold down here,
though.... Say, Charley Redfern ran into a culvert with that big new car
of his last night. Saw the wreck a while ago as I was going to town.
Tore her up mighty bad; Charley didnt have it paid for either.
Dont know what hes
Brought everything back from town, did you? Conway interrupted.
Yeah, everything you sent.... Hello, Kisner! Got you working! How
come? Say, Con, what time are you going to take off? Morning papers
carried a story on you and the
Marie
; theres going to be a
crowd out to see you shove off. I was talking to that skinny little
reporter that covers the field on this kind of stuff: he was looking for
you to get a write-up, and he wants to get a yarn and some pictures for
a full page for Sunday. Told him youre busy as hell and that hed
get run off the place if he showed up out here, but he said: Got to
do it, Lieutenant; guess I better get out there right after noon and see
the Captain. Im going to get me a club and wait for him. Say, Kis,
how about a cigarette?
You through talking? Conway grinned. Kisners got a lot to do
down there before I take off. How about doing a little work yourself?
Work?indignantly. Say, who was it got up at seven
oclock this morning and drove thirty miles to get those barographs?
Battery frozen, too; had to crank the bus by hand. Nearly froze to
death! Just got the seat warmed up as I was driving up to the
hangar
Hand me those instruments, Conway interrupted. Be careful with
em too!
Welkfurn handed the black boxes up, one at a time. Then he turned and
squatted beside Kisner, busied himself with the adjustment of a
sand-release on an empty sandbag.
Occasionally Kisner or Welkfurn looked up and directed some question at
Conway, queried this or that in connection with the preparation for the
flight. Kisner was all engaged with the work he had to do; Welkfurn, on
the other hand, kept up a running conversation. From time to time he
made some friendly jest about Conways ability as a balloonist.
Ought to get the record this time, Welkfurn called. Tried it
three times now; had lots of practice trying to get it. Better make it
on this trip; youll be running out of excuses pretty soon.
Conway paused, stopped his work and stood with mittened hands upon his
hips.
A helluva lot you know about altitude records, fella! Want to fly
this one, for a change? Ill let you!
Guess not this time.
Marie
and I dont get along so well. I
havent got the masters touch. And Welkfurn laughed.
Say, Con, Ill order flowers this afternoon. Got a friend in town
whos a florist. I can get em cheap, he added.
Im supposed to laugh at that, I guess! Conway said to Kisner.
Then to Welkfurn: Little stale this morning, son.
Kisner seemed annoyed.
You talk like a fool, Welk! he said soberly. You talk like
that, and something might happen!
Dont see any harm in it, Welkfurn replied defensively. No
harm meant; you dont need to get sore about it. He slipped into a
moody silence.
Kisner climbed into the basket to help Conway with the equipment there.
For two hours the three men worked, saying little. The sun crawled up in
the east and stood almost overhead, but it brought no warmth as it
climbed.
When the preparations for the flight were almost completed, Conway sent
Welkfurn down to headquarters on an errand. Welkfurn was gone almost an
hour, and when he returned Conway yelled to him:
Hey, fella, wheres my clock?
Clock? Welkfurn asked blankly. Search me; didnt know you sent a clock.
Conway paused. Sure I sent one. Sent it with the barographs to have
the oil cleaned out of it.
Use another one, Welkfurn suggested. Ill get one out of
another balloon.
Use another one? Kisner asked sourly. Gosh, I thought you knew
more than that! Cons got to have a clock thats dryno oil
inside of itor the oilll get stiff up high where its cold,
and the clockll freeze! Hes got to have that clock running to tell
him when its time to start back down. Hes got oxygen for an hour
and a half; hes got to save enough oxygen to get back down to fifteen
thousand feetwhere he can breathe air again. If the clock stops
up there and he uses up all his oxygennot knowing when the
timell be uphell suffocate before he gets back down!
Conway laughed at Kisners agitation.
You better go back to town and get it, Kisner said. Cons got
to have it. And dont waste any time!
I dont think hes got time enough now, Conway said dryly.
Im going to take off right after lunch, and Welk might get to
talking downtown and not get back in time. Eh, Welk?
Welkfurn looked up at the two men in the basket a moment, then at the
floor. He tried to grin.
Ill get your damn clock! he said hastily. He ran to the
automobile, climbed in. Gears clashed for a moment, and he was gone.
Good scout, Welkfurn, Conway said to Kisner. Just young and
inexperienced. Means everything fine. Just like a woman,
thoughalways talking. Gets started to talking and forgets
everything else. He doesnt remember it, but I told him yesterday
about that clock. Some day hell have to make a parachute jump from a
balloonif theres anybody else in the basket, Welkll get
started talking on the way down and forget to pull his rip-cord!
Conway was scheduled to begin his flight at one oclock that
afternoon; he could not well delay it beyond two-thirty because, in
doing so, he ran the risk of landing his balloon in strange country
after night with the consequent hazard of being killed; or, if his
parachute was resorted to, of losing the balloon.
The flight had been planned with infinite attention to detail in
equipment and the weather. The equipment had been ready for a month, but
the weather until now had made the flight impossible.
Captain Conway wanted to be the man who had gone to the highest point
up ever attained by man, and he had made of that desire a lifelong
ambition. For three years after entering the service he had studied and
trained and worked unceasingly. At the end of that time he took a small
balloon and flew it as high as he could go without oxygensome
twenty-six thousand feet. That was the beginning of a series of flights,
each a little higher.
The result of this procedure was that after ten years in the service,
Conway knew more about balloons and high-altitude balloon flying than
any man had ever known before. But still, he didnt hold the record:
He had held it, to be sure; but each time he got it in his grasp some
other man, in a balloon or airplane, went up a few feet higher.
Conway wanted to stop that. He wanted to go so high that his record
would stand until some one built a bigger balloon than his and learned
to fly it better than he could fly the
Marie
.
Conway and Kisner were through with the balloon by twelve oclock, but
now, to occupy their time, they made another inspection of the basket,
checked every instrument carefully, examined the sand-releases, the
barographs and radio. There was nothing more to do, and they drove back
to the club and went to lunch, trying to calm their excitement in
activity, as the time for the take-off drew nearer.
From the flying field to Greenburg was about fifteen miles; a car like
Welkfurns should have been able to traverse the distance in twenty
minutes, or thirty at the most. Conway expected Welkfurn back within an
hour, and when he returned to the balloon hangar after lunch he looked
around for Welkfurns car, but could not find it. The sergeant left
with the balloon had seen nothing of Welkfurn.
That little cuss! said Kisner angrily.
I wonder where he is?
Conway did not reply. He was looking appraisingly at the sky, as if he
saw it now for the first time that day. High clouds were pushing rapidly
in from the southwest. There had been no sign of them that morning; now
they had slid well overhead. The suns rays were dimming slowly, would
be obscured soon. Already the shadow of the hangar was blurred.
Snow tomorrow, Kis, said Conway. If it warms up, itll rain.
Were in for a bad stretch of weather; there are the
signs!pointing.
Somethings happened to Welkfurn! Kisner declared. Its
one-thirty. Hes had plenty of timesomethings happened to
him.
Conway stepped briskly out to where he could view the road that led to
the balloon hangar, examined the road carefully, looking for
Welkfurns car approaching. No car was in sight. He returned to the
doorway of the hangar, waited briefly, then went out again. Still
Welkfurn did not appear.
If he doesnt hurry up, you cant go! Kisner muttered angrily.
He knows better than to delay like this.
Conway studied the sky in silence. He finally shook his head.
Say, Kis, call the jeweler; find out if Welkfurns been there! Why
didnt we think of that before?
Conway stood by and listened while Kisner called his number. He looked
at his watchone-thirty-seven.
Hasnt been there? he heard Kisner question. Havent seen
him? What the hell! Well, when he comes in there, tell him were
waiting for that clock!
Welkfurn left Conway and Kisner in a mood of anger with himself. He
realized that the clock was necessary for the flight. He hadnt
thought of it beforea clock freezing in the air; but he could
readily see, now that Kisner had explained it, that Conway ran a risk of
death if his timepiece failed him on the flight. And Welkfurn knew
Conway well enough to know that the balloonist would take off without
the clock rather than postpone the trip. Well, hed get it there in
time. Conway wanted to take off at one oclock, which gave Welkfurn a
few minutes more than an hour to make the trip.
He drove furiously toward Greenburg, holding the car at its greatest
speed, slowing only slightly for the turns. He knew that he could make
the trip, with luck, in fifty minuteseven less than that. He
wanted a good margin of time on the return trip. Conway had always
laughed at him for talking constantly and forgetting things; and he knew
that the other man had been justified in doing so.
Welkfurn had come some three miles toward Greenburg when he was startled
by a blatant siren just behind him. He pulled carefully to the side of
the road, holding his speed, to let the other vehicle pass; but the
sound persisted. Then he saw, through the window in the rear, a
motorcycle policeman riding close behind and to the side.
He had a crazy impulse to cut suddenly across the road, to wreck the
officers machine; but he realized the idiocy of that procedure and
slowed angrily to a stop. The cop rode up alongside, rested his foot
leisurely on the running-board of Welkfurns car.
Nice speedway here, aint it?acidly.
Whats the idea of stopping me? Welkfurn barked in reply.
Im going to town on official business; you cant stop me like
this! Im in a hurry!
Cant stop ya? Thats too bad! You aint on the reservation now,
buddy. Yer on the State highway, and yer speedin somethin
awful!
Ill have your job! Instantly he wished he had been silent. The
policeman looked at him appraisingly, then smirked:
You couldnt hold it!
Listen, Mister, Welkfurn said appeasingly, trying to hurry the
matter, a friend of mines liable to get killed if I dont get
back to the field in a hurry! Cant I sign a bond and then go on?
Thats better. Yeah, you can sign a bond. He produced it, filled
it out, and Welkfurn signed it hurriedly. Im goin into town
behind ya, the cop continued. Better not go no fastern the law
allows, or you cant sign a bond next time!
Welkfurn drove ahead at what seemed to him a snails pace, the cop
following at a distance.
In town at last, and free of the policeman, Welkfurn opened up his car
and tore through traffic toward the jewelers place. Twice he was
whistled at by traffic-officers, but both times he got away. He thought,
mirthlessly, Ill be afraid to come to town for a month after this
ride!
Ill luck pursued him, as it often does when haste is most essential.
Rounding a corner at thirty miles an hour, he was suddenly confronted by
a huge truck that almost blocked the street. He tried to dodge
throughthought he had made it. There was a crash, his car
careened drunkenly and skidded to a stop. A rear wheel lay splintered on
the pavement; the axle of the car was resting on the curb.
He was suddenly confronted by a huge truck. He tried to dodge through. There was a crash, and his car careened drunkenly.
It required ten precious minutes to pacify the truck-man. Welkfurn was
made to fill out a card, giving his name and address and phone number.
At last he was allowed to go, and he ran frantically to the store. He
burst in and asked, breathlessly, for the clock.
Somebody just called about you, the jeweler told him. Seemed
like he was sore about something. I told him you hadnt been here, and
he said for you to hurry up, that they were waiting for you out
there.
Good! If hell only wait, everythingll be all right. If he takes
off without this clock, therell be hell to pay!" He grabbed the
instrument and hurried out. He found a cab and gave the driver
directions, offering a double rate for speed. But on the highway the cab
moved along at a speed within the limits of law. Looking back, Welkfurn
saw the same motorcycle cop who had detained him earlier riding steadily
along a hundred yards behind.
The cab left the highway and entered the reservation. The driver shoved
the throttle down now, and in less than a minute more turned onto the
road that led to the balloon hangar. And at that moment Welkfurn saw the
Marie
, gray and stately against the haze, rise slowly in the air.
With the weather all against him if his flight should be delayed, Conway
decided, at two oclock, to fly the
Marie IV
into the subzero
temperatures of the upper air with an ordinary clock. Kisner tried in
every way to dissuade him, but without success. Kisner persisted, like a
mother who argues with a wayward son, until the other man turned on him
impatiently.
I know what Im about! Conway snapped. Get the crew and put
the
Marie
outside. If I dont go today Ill not have another
chance before spring!
But see here, Con, Kisner said desperately. That clockll
stop and youll run out of oxygen up there! Youll die before you
can get down! Dammit, you dont have to kill yourself trying to get
that record!
But Kisner saw that Conway was in earnest and he reluctantly put the
crew to work. They hauled the balloon outside the hangar, took the place
of the sandbags that had held it to the ground.
Conway came presently and shoved through the crowd of curious people,
climbed into the basket and put on his fur-lined helmet and his
parachute. He made a last-minute inspection of the oxygen equipment and
spoke quietly to Kisner, who stood close by. He was in a good humor now
that the flight was definitely under way.
Tell that little cuss Im going to break his neck when I get
down, he said, referring to Welkfurn. Going to get a dub and run
him all over this flying field!
Kisner nodded gravely. He was in no mood for joking. He was tempted to
try again to persuade Conway to postpone the flight, but he knew that it
was useless. He reached up and grasped the furry paw that was extended
down to him.
Good luck, old man, he said, keeping his voice steady with
difficulty. Call me up as soon as you get down and Ill come after
you.
But Conway didnt notice his agitation.
Thanks, he replied absently.
The
Marie
took off for altitude at two twenty-three that
afternoon. The wind had died down during the day from a fitful, biting
breeze to a dead calm; overhead the clouds had thickened perceptibly.
The weather was ideal. Cold air, dry and heavy; the balloon would go up
into the higher reaches in a steady climb that would take it to forty
thousand feet within an houror sooner, if Conway wanted it.
But Conway had no particular desire for speed. Rather, he wanted to go
up slowly so that the effects of the change of atmospheric pressure on
his body would not be acutely uncomfortable; he wanted to go up slowly,
also, so that he might study the conditions of the air at varying
elevations. When once at the top of his climb, with the record his, he
wanted to remain there several minutesas long as his oxygen
supply would permitto study the conditions there. For while he
wanted the altitude record, he also wanted to make his flight of value
to other flyers.
He had changed his clothes at noon, and now wore garments that were
heated by electricity from the battery in the basket. His oxygen mask,
which he would put on when rarefied air was reached, was heated also;
and his goggles likewise. His helmet was equipped with earphones, and in
the wicker cage a radio was rigged to bring in entertainment from the
ground when he was flying high above the earth.
The
Marie
drifted lazily into the air, looking, from the ground,
like a huge gray soap-bubble on which a drop of water clung. Conway
stood at the rim of his tiny car and watched the earth drop slowly away
below. He was watching nothing in particular, seeing the crowd and the
flying field and Greenburg through the haze abstractedly. He noticed an
automobile, a cab whose vivid color was its trademark, race along the
road toward the balloon hangar. It came at last to the crowd, broke
through the cordon of soldiers that had surrounded the
Marie
on
the ground, raced to a spot directly underneath the balloon. A figure
leaped out, waved frantically.
Conway did not recognize the car as Welkfurns. He had been glancing
at the road occasionally, hoping that the other man would arrive at the
field in time. He knew the dangers of going into the cold of high
altitudes with an oily clock, and he planned, if Welkfurn came in time,
to return to earth to get the other timepiece.
He watched the waving figure for a moment and thought: Must be that
fool reporter. Too late even for a picture!
The mottled earth dimmed slowly through the haze as the
Marie
went skyward.
Conway reached for his collar clumsily with his mittened fingers and
adjusted the fur around his throat. Idly he watched a lone buzzard
circle in the bleak and forlorn cold at two thousand feet. Slowly the
balloon reached a level with the bird, went on up until Conway lost
sight of the wheeling speck of black. The thermometer in the basket
registered five degrees above zero; not cold, in comparison with the
cold that would be encountered in the upper air, but cold enough that
Conways face felt drawn and hard and bitten. In a few minutes he
would put his face mask on.
At five thousand feet the haze was denser; he could still see the earth
below, but faintly now. The flying field stood out dimly from the other
land surrounding it, but the giant hangar in its center seemed to fade
imperceptibly into the haze.
The radio brought a rakish melody faintly to the earphones. The music
soothed Conway, though if he had listened to it on the ground he would
have turned to something else. It made him forget to some extent the
loneliness of the infinity that stretched away above him. The earth was
invisible now.
At fifteen thousand feet the temperature had dropped to five degrees
below. Conway put on his mask and adjusted it.
His goggles began to fog and, reaching down, he turned on his batteries;
then, picking up his log sheet, made an entry:
4 volts; much colder.
The air was becoming thinner, lighter. There was less oxygen to breathe,
and he found himself sucking in the icy air in greedy gasps. Stooping,
he twisted a valve that opened an oxygen tank. After that his breath
came normally.
An airman going rapidly aloft to great altitudes sometimes experiences
an acute discomfort called, in aviation parlance, bends, or
sometimes rickets. These bends may produce pains behind the
flyers ears, like mastoiditis, or an apparent buzzing in the ears and
head. If prolonged these pains become unbearable. Conway suffered from
this trouble now, and slowed the progress of the balloon until his body
could become accustomed to the change in pressure of the air.
At sixteen thousand feet the
Marie
entered the first layer of
clouds. The mist hugged tight around the basket; whereas
beforewhen in clear airConway had been able to see a
distance of fifty miles, he could scarcely see ten feet now. The feeling
of isolation and aloneness was even more pronounced. The temperature was
fifteen degrees below, yet snow filtered down from the clouds above,
passed Conway slowly, Gradually the rounded top of the huge bag was
covered with snow, a perceptible weight to carry into the rarefied air
as the flight progressed. Conway spilled more sand from his ballast
bags, a thin yellow stream of grains that fell away like beads of amber
glass.
At twenty thousand feet the
Marie
lifted herself out of the
clouds and into clear sunshine. The sky here was a deep and lifeless
blue. Clouds stretched out in all directionsseemingly into
infinity, low ridge after low ridge, with valleys in between: a flat
plain of brilliantly white mist that was painful to the eye. Above these
clouds there was no haze; the sun was intense, yet cold, unfriendly.
It was ten minutes until three oclock. The radio was still bringing
in music from an invisible, distant world. The bends grew less painful
as the minutes passed.
But Conways body was gradually growing numb from the lack of pressure
on ita normal phenomenon at extremely high altitudes. Some men
may go to forty thousand feet before this sets in; others feel it coming
on at thirty thousand. Conway began to suffer from it at thirty-five. He
felt no cold, no pain; his body seemed to rest comfortably, with a kind
of sensuous inertia that lulled him toward a seductive
semiconsciousness. He tried to fight this feeling, tried to rouse
himself. He knew its symptoms and its dangers: in its final form a few
minutes of complete paralysis, then sleep. The oxygen would feed his
lungs until it became exhausted, then sleep would carry him to death in
the thin, anaemic air eight miles above the earth. He had felt that way
on other flights, although less so than now. And he still had nine
thousand feet to go before the record would be safely his.... The
mercury in the thermometer had tumbled down to twenty-nine below.
There was a sudden suffocating feeling in Conways lungs. Quickly he
changed from the first oxygen tank to the second; then, with a knife
that dangled on a string inside the basket he cut the rubber tubing of
the first tank and hacked at the lashings that protruded into the car.
The empty cylinder fell silently away; the balloon lunged upward gently,
hesitated with a slight jerk, then went up again.
Conway was dimly conscious that his radio was silent. He tuned it
carefully, examined it at length without success. Finally he leaned over
the side of the basket and looked down at the antennait was gone.
Slowly he scrawled on his log:
Cyl. dropped. Broke antenna off; no more music.
He busied himself for some minutes with entries in his log, writing now
in an unsteady hand, clumsily. He set down the time shown on the clock
and the voltage being drawn from his batteriesanything he saw or
anything he thought about recording to occupy his mind.
Insidiously the numbness grew upon his body. He seemed unable to see his
instruments clearly; he was like a drunken man, his vision blurred.
Doggedly he shook his head, trying thus to clear his sight. His senses
seemed all befuddled. Foolhardy though he knew the expenditure of energy
to befor he was not coldhe took to waving his mittened
hands, clapping them together gently, as a freezing man might do when
slipping into a fatal stupor in the cold. But that did no good; and he
took up his pencil again and tried to make another entry in his log. His
mind seemed to work in vagrant opposition to his will, disobeying reason
and experience.
He read his altimeter and his clock and thermometer. These readings he
put down carefully, with painful labor. The altimeter registered
thirty-eight thousand feet; it was three-twenty by the clock; the
temperature was down to thirty-four below. He found the line on the log
below where his last entry had been made. There was something distantly
familiar about the figures already there and the ones he was trying to
write; he fumbled in his mind to recall the connectionfailed.
Time passed now in endless throbs. His legs felt numb; his feet like
slugs of lead that hung inside his fur-lined moccasins in curious
detachment from his body. With difficulty now he made new figures on the
paper. Wearily he glanced at other entries and wondered where he had
seen them; he glanced at all his instruments and back to the log once
more. Slowly realization came to him.
There were three entries that gave the time of day as three-twenty! The
clock, also, said three-twenty! He puzzled that; finally, through a
blur, knew that the clock had stopped! He stared out into space, trying
to collect his wits, incredulous.
The oil! he thought. How long ago?
The altimeter registered forty-one thousand feet. He knew, dimly, that
he must hurry; but there was no conscious fear among his muddled
thoughts. Suddenly there was that suffocation in his lungs; he changed
to the third cylinder of oxygen, his movements heavy. It was later than
he had thoughtthe time was now almost too short!
Speed! Conway dropped the remainder of his sand, cut away the second
cylinder to lighten the balloon still further. His movements were
sluggish, and he fumbled stupidly. The paralysis was moving upward in
his body, was seeping into his arms already; would soon sweep up and
touch his sight and hearing and his brain.
His foggy mind worked incoherently. Up two thousand more.... Down twenty
thousandthe air was thick down there.... Thirty minutes on the
last tank.... Never make it! Go down now! But a dogged disregard for
safety made him go ahead.
Vaguely he remembered dropping his batteries to lighten the balloon
still more. Speed! If he got caught up there without oxygen, hed be
dead before he could get down! The altimeter registered forty-two. He
reached for the valve-cord with clownish awkwardness, then released it:
hed go on up. His mind worked things out in blurred succession as the
needle crept slowly around the dial.
A free balloon is equipped with a rip panel in its top, which,
when torn free, allows a complete deflation of the bag. The loss of gas
permits the cloth of the bottom portion of the balloon to fold back
within the upper portion, forming in that way an enormous cap,
umbrella-like, over which the netting hangs. The netting holds this cap
in place, and the balloon parachutes to earth. The descent is rapid.
The needle of the altimeter paused at forty-three thousand as the nerves
in Conways muscles died. He found himself unable to grasp the
valve-cord with his hands; his arms were like wooden stakes, detached
entirely from his shoulders. He could still hear and see, although there
was a roaring in his brain. The balloon had stopped its climb, had
reached its peak, would go no farther.
Conway realized that death was near. Unable to pull the cord that would
release the gas, helpless at an altitude where life would perish without
oxygen, he would be snuffed out in a few quick minutes when the last
cylinder was empty. The rip-cord and the valve-cord dangled temptingly
in the basket just in front of him; either would have served his
purpose, would have sent the balloon back to earth again. But he could
not control his muscles enough to pull either one of them. Every muscle
in his arms and legs was uncontrollable. Only his head and neck were
still unparalyzed.
There came that suffocating feeling now again. The tank was almost
empty, would be gone in one more breath! Desperately, with strength born
of panic, he sucked his lungs full. Then he bent his neck and raked his
face against a rope that extended upward from the corner of the basket.
His lungs seemed bursting; the mask still clung tenaciously on his face.
He raked again, a grotesque movement, and the mask came halfway off. His
head swam, reeled crazily; he wanted airhe had to breathe! He set
his teeth hard over the cord that extended to the rip panel, bit hard
down upon it, tried to jerk it with his head. He lost his balance,
crumpled forward and lay, unconscious, on the basket floor.
In the deathlike silence of the upper air the rasping sigh of escaping
hydrogen echoed hollowly. The huge bag of the
Marie IV
crumpled
slowly, collapsed, the bottom portion folding upward in the netting. It
started down, gaining momentum rapidly. Air, passing through the ropes
and rigging of the balloon, turned to howling, shrieks as speed was
gathered.
The
Marie
fell three thousand feet while the hydrogen was going
out. When the bag was empty it should have parachuted, but it did not.
It folded up into a knot in the apex of the netting, like a huge fist,
gnarled and bulging on one side. Helpless from the force of gravity, the
derelict was falling at a speed of two hundred miles an hour, the cloth
and netting whipping violently upward in a high-flung streamer. The
figure in the bottom of the basket lay as it had fallen, crumpled
grotesquely.
The balloon plunged earthward at a constant speed nowair
resistance was so great that it could gain no greater velocity. As it
descended and reached denser air it even slowed a trifle, but still fell
like a rock nearly three miles a minute. The flat plain of the clouds
seemed to lift steadily up toward the basket of the balloon; the balloon
itself seemed to drop but slowly. Then, at twenty thousand feet, the
clouds enveloped it and there was no trace left of where the falling
derelict had gone.
Kisner and Welkfurn, waiting at the club for hours now, were silent as
the minutes passed and brought no word of Conway. At first there had
been tense moments of angry denunciation from Kisner, a hysterical
venting of his fears and feelings of impending evil. Welkfurn realized
fully now the gravity of his failure to return in time with the clock.
At first he made explanations hotly, told of his experiences in town,
tried to pacify and allay Kisners agitation; but the other man would
not listen.
They waited anxiously until the time when Conway should have returned
to earth again: they knew how much oxygen he carried, how long it would
supply him; and when the time was up, they drove silently from the club
to the balloon hangar and waited there, scanning the sky and hoping
desperately to see the balloon descending near at hand, yet knowing that
winds in the upper air were apt to drift the bag many miles Before it
returned to earth. Time passed, and no word came of it. They waited now
apathetically. They were sure that Conway was dead, and Kisner blamed
Welkfurn bitterly.
Why are we waiting here? Welkfurn asked woodenly. The balloon
wont come down around herethe wind will drift it.
All kinds of winds up there. Cant tell where it went. One wind
might drift it one way, then up a little higher another wind might blow
it back. Anyhow
Suddenly Welkfurn cried eagerly:
Kisner,
look
! He pointed up as he spoke, and finally
Kisner saw a speck of gray above another speck of dark, three or four
miles to the east. These specks fell together, rapidly, in a straight
line earthward. Kisner, running to his car, obtained binoculars, focused
them quickly.
The basket of the balloon stood out quite plainly through the glass, the
bag above it twisted hopelessly in the netting. There was no one in the
car, and for a moment Kisner hoped that Conway had left his craft when
higher up, was somewhere now coming down dangling on his parachute. The
wreck hurtled toward the earth. Kisner judged that it was at six
thousand feet when he first saw it. It reached four, then three; was
plainer to be seen as it descended.
The figure seemed to hang a moment on the rim, seemed to try to struggle free, then toppled from the car.
Then something lifted itself up inside the basket, seemed to hang a
moment on the rim. It moved! Kisner saw it clearly! Then it sank again.
The
Marie
was almost to the groundtwo thousand feet,
dropping at one hundred fifty miles an hour. The figure rose again,
dully, lethargically. Slowly it climbed up higher in the basket, seemed
to try to struggle free. It seemed to slump again, but rose a moment
later, and toppled from the car, falling for a time in line with the
plunging wreckage. Something white bubbled up above it, checked its
fall. Lazily it drifted down. The balloon struck the ground four hundred
feet below. Before the parachute had come to earth, Kisner and Welkfurn
rode frantically along a road toward where it would come down....
Six minutes later they were lifting Conway carefully into the car.
Nearer dead than alive, he fainted as they put him in.
Late that evening Conwaythe altitude-record holder of the
worldand Kisner and Welkfurn sat before a roaring fire in the
club. The balloonist was slightly pale, and was weakened from exposure.
He should have been in bed recuperating, but his excitement had not
waned, and he was not sleepy. From time to time he sucked deep breaths
of air hungrily, held them in his lungs, and let them go.
Cant explain it all, he said. Cant see how it
happened.
Whats the last thing you remember? Kisner asked.
That clock! I saw three entries on my log, all the same! It woke me
up a little, scared me. After that I dont recall what happened. Must
have been out on my feet; dont recall a thing.
How I pulled the rip-cord of the balloon I cant see. When I came
to, we were coming down like a brickshe hadnt parachuted
normally at all. I saw the cloth of the bag rolled up in a ball in the
top of the netting, just enough to slow us up a little. By the time I
got my mind working, we must have been down lowI didnt see the
altimeter. Just remember thinking: Big boy, you gotta jump! Had a
hard time getting out, too; just did make it. Kept thinking, Must be
awful near the ground. Hurry! Hurry! Well, you saw me come over the
side.
Good thing she
didnt
parachute just right up there,
Kisner pointed out. Your oxygen tanks were emptyif you
hadnt come down fast, youd have died before the balloon got down
where the air was dense enough that you could breathe! He puzzled the
matter a moment, shook his head. Dont see how you did it, Con.
Well see what I put on the log when I was up there, Conway said
tiredly. Say, Welk, you run over and get itget the log.
Well have a look at it.
Welkfurn nodded and arose, pulled on his overcoat. He started toward the
door, and Conway called after him, grinning:
Dont be gone long, Welk; dont get to talking on the way!
Transcribers Note: This story appeared in the March, 1929 issue of
Blue Book
magazine.
*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ALTITUDE ***
Updated editions will replace the previous onethe old editions will
be renamed.
Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given awayyou may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.
START: FULL LICENSE
THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK
To protect the Project Gutenberg mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase Project
Gutenberg), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.
Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg
electronic works
1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.
1.B. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.
1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (the
Foundation or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg License when
you share it without charge with others.
1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.
1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:
1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg work (any work
on which the phrase Project Gutenberg appears, or with which the
phrase Project Gutenberg is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:
This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
at
www.gutenberg.org
. If you
are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase Project
Gutenberg associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.
1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg.
1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg License.
1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg work in a format
other than Plain Vanilla ASCII or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original Plain
Vanilla ASCII or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg electronic works
provided that:
You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
the use of Project Gutenberg works calculated using the method
you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
to the owner of the Project Gutenberg trademark, but he has
agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
Section 4, Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation.
You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg
License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg
works.
You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
receipt of the work.
You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
distribution of Project Gutenberg works.
1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.
1.F.
1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain Defects, such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.
1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the Right
of Replacement or Refund described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.
1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.
1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you AS-IS, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.
1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.
1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.
Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg
Project Gutenberg is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.
Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenbergs
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.
Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundations EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your states laws.
The Foundations business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundations website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact
Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation
Project Gutenberg depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.
The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit
www.gutenberg.org/donate
.
While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.
International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.
Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg electronic works
Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.
Project Gutenberg eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.
Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility:
www.gutenberg.org
.
This website includes information about Project Gutenberg,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
BRAILLE:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         

